Lewis Richardson: "Does the wind possess velocity?"

Mandelbrot: Cantor set in tele communications noise (gleick)

Smale: "Chaos is a new science which establishes the omnipresence of unpredictability as a fundamental feature of common experience"(Chaos Avent-Garde p16)

Li-Yorke: "We often thought of our work as attempts to make connections between the mathematical theories and the needs of the scientists, showing the scientists how useful the mathematics can be at identifying conpects as well as at proving theorems" (Chaos Avant-Garde)

Lacosta-Yorke: "On the existence of invariant measures for piecewise monotonic transformations"
(aka "chaos implies statistical regularity")
-> Li found how to compute the invariant measure in "Finite approximation for the Frobenius-Perron operator"
(Chaos Avant-Garde)

Absolute continuous measure would be called "Bowen-Ruelle-Sinai measure" for their "The Ergodic Theory of Axiom-A Flows" and "Gibbs measure in ergodic theory"

May: "Simple mathematical models with very complicated dynamics"

Ruelle: "sensitivity to initial data"

Ueda Yoshisuke: "The Road To Chaos"; "The Chaos Avant-Garde: Memories of the Early Days of Chaos Theory"
Also, lectures on youtube.

WolframMathWorld:
  "'Chaos' is a tricky thing to define. In fact, it is much easier to list properties that a system described as "chaotic" has rather than to give a precise definition of chaos."

Robinson: 
uses Wiggin's definiton, over Devaney's (p 86)
Transitivity = indecomposability
To avoid circle map's non-sense, use: 1) 'chain transitive' 2) a positive Lyapunov exponent.
definition in experimental setting = box dimension (p 87)
a quantitative measurement of chaos = topological entropy

Ruelle (1989) "Chaotic Evolution and Strange Attractors"

On a compact interval Devaney and Block-Coppel are equivalent.
Devaney (or Block-Coppel) implies Li-Yorke
But Li-Yorke does not imply Devaney.

Bifurcation ~ Going down in the Sarkovskii's ordering

Tinkerbell map

Blanco, Garcia - snapback repeller implies positive topological entropy.

A Li-Yorke chaotic map with zero topological entropy. (Smital)

Misiurewicz, Horseshoes for mappings of the interval.

Extensions of Li-Yorke chaos (from Oprocha): dense chaos - Józef Piórek, On the generic chaos in dynamical systems; generic chaos - Lubomír Snoha, Generic chaos; extreme chaos - A. M. Bruckner and Thakyin Hu, On scrambled sets for chaotic functions

Michał Misiurewicz, Horseshoes for mappings of the interval
(tools for studying topological entropy in terms of topological horseshoe)

Applications of snapback repeller:
-resource budget models (ecology)
-neuron model (Zheng, Tonnelier)
-wave equations (Chen, Hsu, Zhou)
-Henon map (Marotto)

omega-chaos implies Li-Yorke chaos. omega-chaos is equivalent to positive entropy as well as to Devaney's chaos.

Shinbrot; Kostelich: Targeting using sensitivity.
NASA 1985: ISEE3--chaotic nature of gravitational tree-body problem

Carroll and Pecora (US Naval Research Lab), nonlinear circuit

Notices of the AMS, Vol 56, Num 10, Letter to the Editor:
Conversation between Yorke and Ruelle

Meyer and Hall, Hamiltonian dynamcis and N-body problem

Weigend and Gershenfeld, Time Series Prediction (about SFI Competition)

Ljupco Kocarev: Application of chaos in Cryptography

Ivan Zelinka: Application of chaos in Evolutionary Algorithms

Yuming Shi/Guanrong Chen: Chaotification, Control of Chaos

Roux et al. (1983): Chaos in BZ reaction

Tomasz Downarwicz: cool Polish Dude in Wroclaw

Attractor Reconstruction from a SINGLE ORBIT (dude!) (Packard et al. 1980; Takens 1981)

Distributional chaos (Smital)  Measures of chaos and a spectral decomposition of dynamical systems on the interval
DC3 implies positive topological entropy

Lacunarity - the 'texture' of a fractal 
Self-organized critical systems usually have negative Lyapunov exponent 
e.g. Sand pile model [Caglioti and Loreto 1996]

nonuniform hyperbolic theory (Pesin's theory)

A stochastic system has a randomly distributed error
In a chaotic system nearby initial values will be far
away in t -> large.

"Given for one instant an intelligence which
could comprehend all the forces by which nature
is animated and the respective positions of the
beings which compose it, if moreover this
intelligence were vast enough to submit these
data to analysis, it would embrace in the same
formula both the movements of the largest bodies
in the universe and those of the lightsest atom;
to it nothing would be uncertain, and the future
as the past would be present to its eyes."
(P. Laplace)

"If we knew exactly the laws of nature and the situation of the universe at the
initial moment, we could predict exactly the situation of that same universe
at a suceeding moment. But even if it were the case that the natural laws
had no longer any secret for us, we could still only know the initial situation
approximately. If that enabled us to predict the succeeding situation with
the same approximation, that is all we require, and we should say that the
phenomenon had been predicted, that it is governed by laws. But it is no
always so; it may happen that small differences in the initial conditions
produce very great ones in the final phenomena. A small error in the former
will produce an enormous error in the latter. Prediction becomes impossible,
and we have the fortuitous phenomenon." -- Henri Poincare

"A strange attractor seems strange only to a stranger."
(Boris Chirikov, Felix Izrailev in "The Essense of Chaos")

"In the beginning, there was only chaos, the Abyss" (Hesiod?)

Use "Garamond" font
