Notices of the AMS, Vol 56, Num 10, Letter to the Editor:
Conversation between Yorke and Ruelle

Ljupco Kocarev: Application of chaos in Cryptography

Ivan Zelinka: Application of chaos in Evolutionary Algorithms

Yuming Shi/Guanrong Chen: Chaotification, Control of Chaos

Roux et al. (1983): Chaos in BZ reaction

Tomasz Downarwicz: cool Polish Dude in Wroclaw

Attractor Reconstruction from a SINGLE ORBIT (dude!) (Packard et al. 1980; Takens 1981)

Distributional chaos (Smital)

Lacunarity - the 'texture' of a fractal

Self-organized critical systems usually have negative Lyapunov exponent 
e.g. Sand pile model [Caglioti and Loreto 1996]

nonuniform hyperbolic theory (Pesin's theory)

A stochastic system has a randomly distributed error
In a chaotic system nearby initial values will be far
away in t -> large.

"Given for one instant an intelligence which
could comprehend all the forces by which nature
is animated and the respective positions of the
beings which compose it, if moreover this
intelligence were vast enough to submit these
data to analysis, it would embrace in the same
formula both the movements of the largest bodies
in the universe and those of the lightsest atom;
to it nothing would be uncertain, and the future
as the past would be present to its eyes."
(P. Laplace)

"If we knew exactly the laws of nature and the situation of the universe at the
initial moment, we could predict exactly the situation of that same universe
at a suceeding moment. But even if it were the case that the natural laws
had no longer any secret for us, we could still only know the initial situation
approximately. If that enabled us to predict the succeeding situation with
the same approximation, that is all we require, and we should say that the
phenomenon had been predicted, that it is governed by laws. But it is no
always so; it may happen that small differences in the initial conditions
produce very great ones in the final phenomena. A small error in the former
will produce an enormous error in the latter. Prediction becomes impossible,
and we have the fortuitous phenomenon." -- Henri Poincare

"A strange attractor seems strange only to a stranger."
(Boris Chirikov, Felix Izrailev in "The Essense of Chaos")

"In the beginning, there was only chaos, the Abyss" (Hesiod?)

Use "Garamond" font
